[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise mentioned in charlie state
our headlines for you at six o'clock the
prime minister says
mass lateral flow testing could be the
key to reopening the toughest
nuts to crack cinemas theaters and
nightclubs
ex-military personnel dismissed from the
forces because of their sexuality can
now reclaim the medals that were taken
from them
chris lewis the mountain rescue hero who
suffered life-changing injuries rescuing
campers breaking lockdown
his colleagues urged people to stay at
home
good morning the rise of electronic
payments and the decline of
cash the limit for contactless
transactions could rise to 100 pounds
but is this the beginning of the end for
cash
good morning we'll have the latest from
the crickets where it's not looking good
for england and chennai
plus the race for the champions league
sports is hotting up chelsea moved back
into the top four
as timo verner ends his gold route
good morning today we've got some rain
pushing down towards the southeast where
it will be slow to clear but behind it a
mixture of sunshine
and some heavy showers and gusty winds
especially in the northwest
i'll have all the details later in the
programme
22 it's a tuesday the 16th of february
our main story the prime minister has
suggested rapid coronavirus tests
could be used to help open up the
struggling entertainment industry
boris johnson stressed he was taking a
cautious approach to easing england's
lockdown which said tests
that give results within 30 minutes
could be used to reopen venues such as
theaters
and nightclubs many of which have been
closed for almost
a year sean dilley has this report
it's a site we're all now used to 11
months on and the doors to many
bars clubs and theaters have remained
closed unable to safely welcome guests
since the curtain came
down last march but now hope for the
struggling entertainment industry
as the government says it will publish a
road map to easing restrictions next
week
but what we're thinking of at the moment
is is is more of a
route that relies on mass vaccination
and as you know we intend to vaccinate
uh all the adults in the in the country
uh by the autumn um
plus plus uh
lateral flow testing or testing uh rapid
testing
uh for those bits where you know it is
that have been the toughest nuts to
crack as it were such as
uh nightclubs or theaters those parts of
the economy we couldn't get
open last year
lateral flow tests like these are easy
to take they can indicate whether
someone is likely to be currently
infected within half an
hour potentially reducing the risk of
transmission
it is incredibly helpful that the prime
minister
is focusing on the plight of theaters
they have been
the first hit by this pandemic and are
likely to be the last sector that will
return
and so any measure that can help
theaters return safely
is incredibly welcome the pace of any
gradual return to what might be called
normality
is likely to center around the success
of the uk's vaccination program
and so far good news as targets set six
weeks ago have been beaten
england scotland and wales have now
offered the vaccine to the top
four priority groups northern ireland
says it will by the end of the month
nearly 238 000 people had their first
jab in the latest 24-hour period which
takes the uk's total
to more than 15 million the government
has said that reopening schools in
england
would be its top priority when
restrictions are eased
they've been close to most students
since january but ministers have said
they want school gates in england to
start to reopen to all pupils as early
as the 8th of march
the government's roadmap to lifting
lockdown will be published next week
it's expected to set out a possible
timeline for a cautious but irreversible
lifting of restrictions
but the government is clear on one thing
no decisions are yet final
boris johnson says anyone claiming to
know what will be said before plans are
published
is speculating chandelier bbc news
scotland's first minister will announce
later whether more pupils will start to
return to classrooms
from next week this could include
children aged four to seven at primary
schools and some secondary pupils
for coursework nicholas sturgeon has
said she's very keen to begin the phased
return of younger pupils to school
british servicemen and women who were
stripped of their medals because of
their sexuality have been told they can
apply to get them back
the move comes after the ban on lgbt
people in the military was lifted
in 2000 our home affairs correspondent
june kelly reports
joe oracelica loved his life at sea
he served in the royal navy for nearly
18 years as a radio operator
in 1982 he was part of the task force
which sailed to the south atlantic in
the falklands war
and he did tours of duty in other
trouble spots
joe's career ended because of his
sexuality
and as part of his dismissal his long
service and good conduct medal
was cut from his uniform i wouldn't have
minded it i'd have done something wrong
but the fact was i'd done nothing wrong
the ministry of defense made trump took
charge against me and kicked me out
purely because of my sexuality
this war veteran mounted a personal
battle to get his medal back
he had to resort to legal action against
the ministry of defence
and in 2019 they settled his claim
joe received his medal and an apology
they apologized to me but that's that's
not enough
i did get my medal back and i was elated
over there
but nevertheless there are thousands of
other people out there
who have been treated not too dissimilar
to to myself
now more than 20 years after the ban on
lgbt people
serving in the armed forces was lifted
the ministry of defense has announced
that other former service personnel
dismissed because of their sexuality can
finally apply
to have their lost medals restored it's
taken a while to get here and i
acknowledge that but
you know today is a good day many people
thought we would never get here
and giving individuals the chance to
apply
and have their medals reinstated is a
really important step for them
while welcoming this joe regrets that
some who lost
out have died without the honours owed
to them
june kelly bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news